hey guys welcome back to flix recap my
name is luke pelletier and in today's
video we're covering 2016's mystery
thriller money as i'm sure y'all know by
now there are spoilers ahead you've been
warned be sure to drop a comment like
the video and of course subscribe to
flix recap for more content like this
let's get it going mark dudek is a
chemical engineer who works for winfield
laboratories after his day's work he
comes back home with two silver
briefcases he keeps the first in the
basement and takes the second upstairs
to his room he removes all the cash
inside and then locks it away and is
safe
later that night his friend and
co-worker sean wells comes over to the
house with his girlfriend christina
they exchange greetings and then head
downstairs leaving christina with mark's
wife sylvia
sean comments that they need to do it
again but mark says he thought it was a
one-time thing intentionally leaving out
details for the viewer they continue
going back and forth with sean wanting
to continue and mark wanting to stop
they later come back up and rejoin the
girls for dinner
there sylvia tells the group that she
and mark want to have a baby
shawn congratulates them and then the
doorbell rings
sylvia goes to get the door and the man
standing there introduces himself as jon
their new neighbor
she tells him they're right in the
middle of dinner but his charming
personality wins her over and she
invites him in
sean is immediately angered by jon since
jon keeps talking to christina in
spanish
they each talk about what they do for
work and everything's going swimmingly
until jon drops a hint that mark and
sean are thieves
sean very quickly gets aggressive and
attacks jon but jon has an incredible
reaction time and chokes sean before
drawing his gun from his jacket jon
orders everybody to turn off their
phones and put them on the table but
sylvia says hers is in her room and that
it's switched off he calls her number
and lo and behold it actually was
switched off she informs him that she
always tells the truth
honestly a pretty terrible accomplice
for a thief to have but never mind that
jon tells everyone he's only here for
the money and that no one has to get
hurt
mark plays dumb and says that they don't
keep money in the house
but he's called out when john basically
starts reading off mark's life details
jon continues and states sean's life
details too but neither of them are
giving in
he then threatens to remove sean's
fingers if he's not given the money
they all continue to stall until they
see jon is about to make good on his
threat
mark then reveals that the money is in
the basement
john tells christina to go and get it
and she goes
but not before removing ten thousand
dollars for herself
sylvia take note
john tells them he knows that this isn't
all the money that it's only half so
they should tell him where the rest is
sean tries to attack him but again mark
is faster and in one fell swoop shawn's
index finger comes right off
he gives shawn some ice and tells him
that if they give him the money they can
still make it in time to reattach sean's
finger
focused on getting mark to reveal the
money's location jon literally gets
blindsided by christina who pepper
sprays him
he grabs his gun and shoots reactively
but doesn't hit anyone
mark grabs his legs as shawn hits him in
the head with a bottle knocking him out
they tie him up and then start
deliberating on what to do next
they ask him a few questions but
obviously don't get any clear answers
sean suggests that they kill him but the
others stop him jon tells him that he
has a new proposal that they should
untie him and let him take the briefcase
containing half the money and be on his
merry way and they'd never see him again
sylvia agrees of course but sean like
any other sane human says no
sean insists that this shouldn't even be
up for debate he reaffirms his offer to
kill jon but christina stops him
meanwhile mark and sylvia get into an
argument after he told her he did
everything for her
she tells him she doesn't want the money
and that he should just give it back
but he tells her that's not how this
works
surprisingly john agrees and also tells
her that's not how it works
sean then pipes in and tells sylvia
that's not how it works
i feel like this is basically a huge dig
at sylvia from the entire production
team anyway sean takes marc aside to
tell him the plan
he thinks they should take jon somewhere
secluded and just waste him mark tells
sean that he thinks they should
negotiate but sean makes a good point in
saying that jon didn't bring a gun to
negotiate
mark and sylvia go to the kitchen
mark tells her he needed the money since
they're broke
and he used the house's collateral to
borrow money to make up for his lost
investments shawn steps out for a quick
drink leaving christina with john
john tells her that he knows she took
some money from the briefcase and that
nobody else knows
he tells her it can only stay that way
if she frees him he promises no one will
get hurt that he'll just take the money
and leave
she agrees but she takes even more money
from the briefcase before letting him go
sean comes back and sees jon still
sitting in the same position so he lets
his guard down the film cuts to mark
telling sylvia he plans on negotiating
with jon he wants to give him one out of
the five million that they stole
sylvia remarks that it's not smart to
let him take part of the money sylvia
retorts that it's not smart to let jon
take any of the money
mark expresses surprise as just a few
minutes ago she was ready to let john
take half she tells him a few minutes
ago she didn't know they were broke it
is clear at this point that sylvia is
learning well done sylvia
back in the living room jon knocks out
sean and takes his gun
mark and sylvia go to check up on them
but they're too late
jon binds all of them with zip ties he
instructs sean to follow him he tells
the others that they shouldn't worry
he's just going to lock him up
they leave the room and he comes back
alone a few minutes later
this time he tells mark to follow him
they go to mark's bedroom and he
instructs mark to open the safe
mark gives john the wrong combination
causing the safe to be hard locked for
eight hours
frustrated he knocks out mark and then
takes him to the lakeside he pushes mark
into the lake with his hands tied
mark just manages to untie himself
narrowly avoiding a watery grave but
before mark can swim to the surface he
sees sean's body in the lake
jon asks mark again to open the safe but
mark tells him he can't that they'll
have to wait for eight hours they go
back to the house and john locks mark up
in the basement
john then asks sylvia about the timings
and days when the maid and the gardener
come and she tells him he believes her
because he already knows their schedules
but unknown to him the gardener said
he'll come tomorrow instead of friday
later on the gardener carl arrives early
in the morning and hears mark's voice
from the basement
mark tells him to go and free sylvia
john goes to the basement to get mark
when the eight hours have passed they go
upstairs to the safe
meanwhile carl goes and unties sylvia
and then leaves
jon gets the money from the safe and
comes down and gets the other briefcase
he tells sylvia mark and christina the
story that they should tell the police
so as to avoid implicating themselves
he leaves and the police show up
everybody tells the police the same
story christina goes back home and after
the police leave sylvia tells mark she's
divorcing him she packs up her stuff and
leaves
john then arrives at a remote barn where
he removes the money from the first
briefcase and puts it into a bag he
opens the second briefcase and the money
has been replaced by books
sylvia meets carl and collects the money
he was able to make out with and starts
off on her own journey
this film is just overall fun to watch
it's great to rag on the characters but
their dynamics and careful planning
namely jon's strategy and intellect
really kept my interest
the double crosses are great the action
is just enough and one could argue that
it's really a triumphant coming-of-age
story for sylvia overall this is just a
great flick to toss on with a few
friends kick back and enjoy
technically i guess it's a mystery
thriller but i seriously appreciate
films like money for this reason in
particular so
now i'm asking you
what are some other films you can think
of that are like money in this way films
that you like chilling and goofing on
with friends but that also keep your
attention let me know in the comments
below and of course be sure to like the
video if you dig the commentary and
subscribe to the channel to peep the
latest recap until next time